What are hardware and software?
List five major hardware components of a computer.
What does the acronym “CPU” stand for?
What unit is used to measure CPU speed?
What is a bit? What is a byte?
What is memory for? What does RAM stand for? Why is memory called RAM?
What unit is used to measure memory size?
What unit is used to measure disk size?
What is the primary difference between memory and a storage device?
What language does the CPU understand?
What is an assembly language?
What is an assembler?
What is a high-level programming language?
What is a source program?
What is an interpreter?
What is a compiler?
What is the difference between an interpreted language and a compiled language?
What is an operating system? List some popular operating systems.
What are the major responsibilities of an operating system?
What are multiprogramming, multithreading, and multiprocessing?
Who invented Java? Which company owns Java now?
What is a Java applet?
What programming language does Android use?
What is the Java language specification?
What does JDK stand for?
What does IDE stand for?
Are tools like NetBeans and Eclipse different languages from Java, or are they
dialects or extensions of Java?


Character              Name                                        Description
    {}                 Opening and closing braces                  Denote a block to enclose statements.
    ()                 Opening and closing parentheses             Used with methods.
    []                 Opening and closing brackets                Denote an array.
    //                 Double slashes                              Precede a comment line.
    ""                 Opening and closing quotation marks         Enclose a string (i.e., sequence of characters).
    ;                  Semicolon                                   Mark the end of a statement.



What is a keyword? List some Java keywords.
Is Java case sensitive? What is the case for Java keywords?
What is a comment? Is the comment ignored by the compiler? How do you denote a
comment line and a comment paragraph?
What is the statement to display a string on the console?
Show the output of the following code:
        public class Test {
          public static void main(String[] args) {
            System.out.println("3.5 * 4 / 2 – 2.5 is ");
               System.out.println(3.5 * 4 / 2 – 2.5);
           }
        }   


What is the Java source filename extension, and what is the Java bytecode filename
extension?
What are the input and output of a Java compiler?
What is the command to compile a Java program?
What is the command to run a Java program?
What is the JVM?
Can Java run on any machine? What is needed to run Java on a computer?
If a NoClassDefFoundError occurs when you run a program, what is the cause of
the error?
If a NoSuchMethodError occurs when you run a program, what is the cause of the
error?
What are syntax errors (compile errors), runtime errors, and logic errors?
Give examples of syntax errors, runtime errors, and logic errors.
If you forget to put a closing quotation mark on a string, what kind error will be
raised?
If your program needs to read integers, but the user entered strings, an error would
occur when running this program. What kind of error is this?
Suppose you write a program for computing the perimeter of a rectangle and you
mistakenly write your program so that it computes the area of a rectangle. What kind
of error is this?